Let us start with the required installations
Scilab 5.3.3 should be installed on your computer
Scilab 5.3.3 can be downloaded from 
sbhs.os-hardware.in/downloads
Please note that Scilab needs internet connection during installation
The reason for the requirement of Scilab 5.3.3 is because all experiment Scilab codes are written in  Scilab 5.3.3
If one chooses to use a later version of Scilab then the same code cannot be used for a lower version of Scilab.
This is because a software is always backward-compatible, not forward-compatible.

I have already installed Scilab 5.3.3.
Now the next step is to download the experiment scilab code.
Open a web browser.
In the address bar, type the url os-hardware.in
Click on the project SBHS
On the left hand side, click on Downloads
Click on the download link for SBHS client for Windows
It will download the scilab code.
Save it on the Desktop
The file downloaded will be in zip format.
Extract its content on the Desktop
To do so, right click on it and choose Extract here
The contents inside this folder will be discussed at a later part of this tutorial
Now let us see the sbhs vlabs website.
Switch to the web browser.
On the left hand side, click on the link Virtual Labs
This is the interface from where one can gain access to do remote experiments on SBHS
A first time user needs to register by clicking Login/Register option.
After a form has to be filled and submitted.
An activation link is mailed to the user after the form is submitted successfully
The link received in email should be used to complete the registration process.
Note that the activation process may not be immediate.
It may take a few minutes
I will now login with an already registered account information
After a successful login, a user has access to  “Book Slot”, “View/Delete Slot” etc.
A slot is the time duration in which you can perform an experiment
In our case, a slot lasts for 55minutes of every hour
After clicking on the book slot option the client may have two choices
One can either book Current Slot or a Future Slot
“Book Now” option will appear only if the current slot is vacant while “Book future slot” option will always be available.
It will allow two non consecutive slots to be booked each day
I will click on Book Current Slot
You will be acknowledged with your booking details
The slot booking part is over. 
Let us now run a simple Step Test experiment, downloaded from the website
Open the folder you downloaded and saved on the Desktop
Open this folder. 
You can see that there are two folders StepTest and common_files 
Do not move any of the folder from its location. 
If the directory structure is changed, the experiment will not execute.
If you want one experiment to be copied elsewhere, make sure you copy the common_files folder too.
However, make sure the common_files folder is always outside the experiment folder

Open the StepTest folder
Locate and open the file run.vbs
It will open the SBHS client.
It will show various parameters of the experiment like SBHS Connection, Client Version, User login and Experiment status
It will also give you an option to login
Type your username and password.
Take care you login at the booked date and time with correct login details.
Expect the message Ready to execute scilab code
Switch to the StepTest folder which has the experiment files.
Double click on the “stepc.sce” file
This should open Scilab automatically and the file in Scilab editor.
Switch to the scilab console
Type getd ../common_files and press Enter key
Switch to scilab the editor.
Click on execute and then click on file with echo
If the network is working properly it will open an Xcos diagram else it will show error on the Scilab console
Once the step test Xocs diagram opens up we can set the experiment parameters such as Heat and Fan 
I will set the step to vary from 60% to 75% after 250 seconds 
Similarly i will set the fan to be constant at 50%
So now let us save and execute the xcos diagram.
If there is no error, it will open a plot window.
It will consist of three graphs, Heat, Fan and Temperature from top to bottom 
Switch to the SBHS client.
You can see that it shows the values of current iteration, heat, fan, temperature and time left for experimentation
It shows the log file name it has created for this experiment.

This is a real experiment and will take some time to complete.
I will pause this recording for some time and then resume again.
After sufficient time of experiment the graph obtained is as shown
I will stop the simulation by clicking on the stop button on Xcos window. 
Close the SBHS client after the experiment is over.
Now, switch to the experiment folder and open the logs folder. 
It will have a folder named after your username.
Open this folder and locate your log file.
Read the log file name as date_month_year_hrs_mins_seconds.txt
Use this log file for further analysis. 

